# RFID-Based-Library-Automation-System
RFID means Radio frequency identification i.e. the technology that uses radio waves to automatically identify individual items. The objective of any RFID system is to carry data in suitable transponders, generally known as tags and to retrieve data, by machine readable means, at a suitable time and place and to satisfy particular application needs RFID is one of the most technologies being adopted by both industry and academic world. Modern academic library is a place where millions of books advanced; periodicals, CDs, DVDs and other electronic reading materials are contained. It is a challenge to manage for librarians, managing such type of huge collection. RFID technology is in use since the 1970s. RFID tags can be active, semi-passive and passive. It is a small device that can store information. Passive tags don't have internal batteries. RFID reader is a device that can receive and transmit a radio signal. It is built to encode data stored in the tag's microprocessor. Because of the higher cost, active and semi-passive RFID tags are used for valuable asset tracking. The passive RFID tags are used in RFID library management systems. RFID library management, using RFID tags library, is easy and convenient. A RFID library management system consists of books, each attached with an RFID tag, RFID reader, computer network and software. Library staff handle lending, returning, sorting, tagging etc. of books, using RFID tags in this library system. A person can locate RFID library books marked with a RFID tags, using the RFID reader which identifies and locates the book. When the book is carried to the counter, the library staff can either activate or deactivate the electronic article surveillance bit in the book's tag. If a book is borrowed, then the surveillance bit is deactivated.
